# NIST Cone Data Explorer

#### A web-based app for processing + visualizing cone calorimeter test data.

## Setup
Prior to opening the explorer, preparsing and parsing of data should have been performed. Please run these scripts if this is not the case, or pull down the data from GitHub. Upon opening the explorer (see Usage), click the import data button on the `Main` page to pull in Parsed data.

## Usage
From the root of the repository, run the following command:

```bash
streamlit run scripts/cone-explorer/Main.py 
``

(if the above doesn't work, you can also try `python -m streamlit run scripts/cone-explorer/Main.py`)

If you're running the app for the first time and you get an error about missing packages, you may need to install streamlit again.
```bash
pip install streamlit
```
### SmURF
The major use of this data explorer will be for the SysteMatic User Review of Files (SmURF). This process entails the careful review of both data and metadata generated by parsing and preparsing scripts for each legacy test. Students will make corrections and adjustments to the data as needed, linking each test to a published report, creating a new MatID, and exporting the data to the Reviewed-Final stage. More indepth descriptions of SmURF operations are given below in their relative pages.

#####
The general workflow for SmURFing is as follows:
- Beginning of Day: Pull down the up to date version of the GitHub Repo to your computer
- Start up your explorer and import the recently pulled GitHub data (assuming you follow SmURF protocol, this will not raise errors. However, if there are saved, unexported changes in your explorer, an error will pop up as explained above)
- SmURF files: correct metadata, adjust data, link to reports, generate material ID, note as a bad test. Save your edits in the explorer throughout the day.
- End of Day: Wrap up SmURFing any tests that are still being done. Do NOT leave a test midway through review overnight, as this will lead to potential merge conflicts. Instead, finish a test or revert it to Parsed. Export all tests you have modified to the Prepared-Final Stage
- Push your edited files up to the GitHub website. In the comments of your pull request, write a summary of what you have done for record keeping. For example, if you delete a file, write "Test #### deleted because *reason*." If a file is SmURFed successfully, write "Test #### connected to x report, SmURF to file *filename*".
- Merge the pull request for other users to pull in the next day

## Tools

### Compare Tests

##### Overview
Grants the user the ability to view and compare the data from multiple tests.

##### Filter Options
Select `SmURF Filter` to split tests up based on whether they have been SmURFed or not.
Select `Sort by Markdown File Number` to have the tests appear in order of markdown number rather than test number

##### Selecting Tests to View
Type out the specimen number of the test(s) you would like to view and/or select them from the dropdown list

##### Data Plotting Options
For editing cone data, plots have an x-axis of time (s). The base Y-axis data include heat release rate (kW) sample mass (g), mass loss rate (g/s), total heat release (MJ), gaseous species volume fractions (O2, CO2, CO), and smoke production rate (m2/s). There is also an option to view additional parameters. These include the first four options of base data on a per unit area basis, gasoues species production/consumption rates (g/s), soot production rate (g/s), k smoke (1/m), mass flow rate through the duct (kg/s), and volumetric flow rate through the duct (m3/s).

Plots can zoom in and out, pan, and save the plot as a .png file.

Axis Range Controls in the sidebar allow you to exactly control the axes. Default values are set to the range of the data.

### Data Editor

##### Overview
Grants the user the ability to view, crop, and modify data from a single cone test. This page is intended to be used of cone tests that already have the poper naming convention. Data modifcations for tests needing to be SmURFed are performed in the SmURF Editor

##### Selecting Tests to View
Type out the name of the test you would like to view and/or select them it the dropdown list

##### Data Plotting Options
For editing cone data, plots have an x-axis of time (s). The base Y-axis data include heat release rate (kW) sample mass (g), mass loss rate (g/s), total heat release (MJ), gaseous species volume fractions (O2, CO2, CO), and smoke production rate (m2/s). There is also an option to view additional parameters. These include the first four options of base data on a per unit area basis, gasoues species production/consumption rates (g/s), soot production rate (g/s), k smoke (1/m), mass flow rate through the duct (kg/s), and volumetric flow rate through the duct (m3/s).

Plots can zoom in and out, pan, and save the plot as a .png file.

Axis Range Controls in the sidebar allow you to exactly control the axes. Default values are set to the range of the data.

##### Data Modification
Use the `Revert to Parsed Data` button to revert any changes made back to the original data (pulled from the Exp-Data_Parsed folder). A note is added to the test metadata file , under data corrections, indicating that the data was reverted back to its original state.

###### Data Clipping
Several cone calorimeter tests may have erroneous or irrelevant data that needs to be removed. In the relevant sidebar boxes, enter the temperature range you would like to remove from the data. The plot will preview this change, but data will not yet be altered. Cutoff values are inclusive and default to -1s so all data is initially visible.

Use the `Save Clipped Data` button to save this selection and clip data from all fields between the selected times (to clip ends of data, set beginning or end cut off time to a value outside the datarange). The local copy of the parsed csv file is modified to reflect this change. A note is added to the metadata json file, under data corrections. In the case that additional metadata has been added (i.e. surface area), this button will also regenerate the csv file with the more minimal column (MLRPUA to MLR, HRRPUA to HRR, etc...)



### SmURF Editor

##### Overview
This is the page where SmURFing will be perfomed. Upon opening the explorer, click "Import Data to Explorer" to pull in local copies of the data files. The import button will look at the Parsed metadata folder, pulling new or newly SmURFed data (as obtained from the GitHub directory). Any files labled as bad (i.e. calibration checks, no data, etc...) will be removed from the directory. In the case that files have been modified and saved locally in the explorer, but not yet exported to the repo, an error will be raised asking the user to export or discard these changes. 

Type the name of the test you would like to SmURF into the dropdown menu to select it.By Default, only tests that have not undergone SmURFing can be selected; however, the Include SmURFed Tests checkbox allows these tests to be viewed aswell.

The SmURF Editor is broken up into two functionalities: Data Modification and Metadata Adjustments

#### Data Modification

##### Data Plotting Options
For editing cone data, plots have an x-axis of time (s). The base Y-axis data include heat release rate (kW) sample mass (g), mass loss rate (g/s), total heat release (MJ), gaseous species volume fractions (O2, CO2, CO), and smoke production rate (m2/s). There is also an option to view additional parameters. These include the first four options of base data on a per unit area basis, gasoues species production/consumption rates (g/s), soot production rate (g/s), k smoke (1/m), mass flow rate through the duct (kg/s), and volumetric flow rate through the duct (m3/s).

##### Revert Data Modifications
Use the `Revert Data Modifications` button to revert any changes made back to the original data (pulled from the Exp-Data_Parsed folder). A note is added to the test metadata file , under data corrections, indicating that the data was reverted back to its original state.

###### Data Clipping
Several cone calorimeter tests may have erroneous or irrelevant data that needs to be removed. In the relevant sidebar boxes, enter the temperature range you would like to remove from the data. The plot will preview this change, but data will not yet be altered. Cutoff values are inclusive and default to -1s so all data is initially visible.

Use the `Save Clipped Data` button to save this selection and clip data from all fields between the selected times (to clip ends of data, set beginning or end cut off time to a value outside the datarange). The local copy of the parsed csv file is modified to reflect this change. A note is added to the metadata json file, under data corrections. In the case that additional metadata has been added (i.e. surface area), this button will also regenerate the csv file with the more minimal column (MLRPUA to MLR, HRRPUA to HRR, etc...)

###### CSV Modification
Data transfer is not always perfect from pdf to markdown to csv file. The major types of errors that may occur are typos in individual values (pay close attention to the time columns or clear outliers), duplicated columns, missing data (pulled into metadata or another test during preparsing), and excess data (either from another test or different column of the same test). It is usually visually apparent when these errors occur, and most of these issues are filtered out during preparsing and parsing, but it is good practice to give a cursory look at the csv values if something seems off.

Click the `Modify CSV File` checkbox to open an editable view of the csv file currently in your explorer. Perform data corrections as nescessary (adding, moving, removing, editing cells), and write a note of what was done in the textbox provided. Click `Save Modified CSV` to save these changes to your explorer.

#### Metadata Adjustments
The SmURF editor loads metadata from the local `data` folder within your explorer.
An editable spreadsheet/table-like interface is generated, with each row representing a metadata attribute.
When modifying a test, the first step is to ensure all possible metadata fields are populated correctly. Preparsing and parsing scripts generally do a good job at this, but there are cases where a field that should have been populated was not recognized and added to the comments or missplaced in a different field. There are also cases where additional metadata may be found in the report being attached to a test. For each test SmURFed, ensure the metadata is filled out as comprehesivley as possible.
MAKE SURE Heat Flux, Material ID, and Orientation are populated prior to export.                                                                                                                                  

- Material IDs should use the format `<material_name>-<report_identifier>`. Spaces in a material name should be removed. For example, the material ID for a material named "Material A" with a report identifier of "smith2015characterization" would be `MaterialA-smith2015characterization`.

##### Buttons/Actions
`Reload Metadata`: Discards any changes that are currently in the active editor and reloads all metadata from the json files located in your local explorer. This the equivalent of moving to a different page in the explorer and coming back.

`Save Metadata`: Saves the active editor to the json files within your explorer. This should be used as you are editing fields in a test during SmURFing, but before you are ready to fully export the files (i.e. you went to lunch).

`Revert Metadata`: For the selected test, metadata is reverted to the version contained within the Parsed folder of the GitHub Repo. Any changes, saved or not, made to these files will be lost. This should only be used if an errouneous edit was made and needs to be undone.

`Delete Files`: For selected tests, the local copies of the json and csv files are deleted from the explorer. The parsed metadata file on the GitHub has its "Bad Data" key updated with a time stamp of the deletion, preventing the test from being brought into the viewer. Tests should only be deleted if they are clear calibration checks (i.e. burner calibration) or have no usable data. In the latter case, please review the pdf and markdown files to ensure the data is actually bad, and was not just copied incorrectly. A success mesage will be displayed at the top of the page following deletion.

`Export Data and Metadata` This button should only be used for tests that have gone through a full SmURF review (both data and metadata), been attached to a report, and had their material ID generated. Before exporting, ensure the material ID and heat flux metadata items are correct and that the test date item is in the format 12 MAY 1987, 12 MAY 87, 5/12/87, 5/12/1987 or the iso standard 1987-05-12T12:46:00. For selected tests, the export button will generate the Prepared-Final versions of the data and metadata files, passing them both to a local prepared folder within the explorer and their resepctive folders on the GitHub repo. The data file may be modified if its data can be reduced (i.e HRRPUA is converted to HRR if the sample surface area was added to the metadata. Testname is generated as Mat-ID_flux_orient_specicmen#. The test date is also turned into a datetime object for uniform tracking, the SmURF attribute is given a timestamp. and the metadata is re-ordered. The version controlled Parsed metadata file is also updated to reflect these changes and prevent re-SmURFing. A success mesage will be displayed at the top of the page following export.


### Metadata Editor
##### Overview
Grants the user the ability to view and edit the metadata of all new and SmURFed Cone Tests. The main functionality of this page is to manually review and approve or reject tests based on the plots generated in the Compare Tests page and the calculated parameters stored in the metadata.

##### Filter Options
Select `Filter Tests By Date` to select a date range of tests; start and end date must be in the format **YYYY-MM-DD**.

##### Selecting Tests to View
Type out the material you wish to view, followed by the version of that material if more than one exist.
Select the specific tests you would like to view, or click one of the three checkboxes.

`Select All Tests for []` will select all tests for the material(s) and version(s) you have selected in brackets.

##### Editing/Saving Metadata
To edit the metadata for a test, click on the relevant cell and enter the new value. Only certain metadata attributes (calculated values/outliers, comments, descriptions) can be modified. Click `Save Changes` to save the changes to the metadata file(s).

##### Approving/Rejecting Tests
To approve or reject a test during manual review, check off the relevant boolean checkbox `Passed Manual Review` or `Failed Manual Review`. Click `Save Changes` to save the changes to the metadata file(s). When all review is complete, click `Autoprocess` to reautoprocess the reviewed data and generate valid statistics.
Files can be deleted by checking the `**DELETE FILE` checkbox and then clicking the `Delete files` button in the sidebar.

### Metadata Search

##### Overview
This page acts as a lookup system for all availblle Cone metadata within the repo. Type in a search term to find matching metadata.

This page should be used when looking for tests to connect to a report. Look up relevant material names, conditions, or other indentifiers from the report. Relevant tests will populate the table. Take these test names and input them into the SmURF editor to perform corrections.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
